Changelog 146 (#114)
intellij-rust/intellij-rust.github.io: _posts/2021-04-26-changelog-146.markdown

  in type inference and name resolution (other types of items are ignored).

  Note, it’s only an initial implementation,
  so it may work in an unexpected way in some cases. The feature is disabled by default for now.To turn it on, you
  should enable `Use experimental name resolution engine` option in `Preferences | Languages & Frameworks | Rust`
  settings and enable `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` and `org.rust.macros.proc` experimental features.
  Don’t forget to reload a project structure after enabling the corresponding features via `Refresh Cargo Projects`
  action on Cargo tool window. See [tracking issue](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/6908) for
  more details and the current status of procedural macros support

TODO gif

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7093 -->
* Now the plugin takes [Cargo config](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html) into account during
  evaluation of `cfg` conditions. Note, it works since Rust 1.52.0

TODO gif

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6581 -->

> * Introduce navigation bar breadcrumbs. (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: I've disabled this feature because of https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/7153 so let's drop this items

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #146"

> date: 2021-04-26 17:00:00 +0300

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2021-04-26 14:00:00 +0300
```

It seems we will publish it earlier than 17:00

  {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/cfg-cargo-config" w="600px" h="300px" %}

* Introduce new intention actions:

  * [#6845], [#7115] `Enable/Disable feature state` to toggles feature state from a `cfg` attribute (by [@Kobzol])

    {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/intention-cargo-feature" w="600px" h="300px" %}
    By the way, we have a [blog post][cargo features blogpost] about cargo features support

  * [#7071] `Share in Playground` to share a selected Rust code on [Rust Playground](https://play.rust-lang.org)

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/intention-playground" w="600px" %}
    Previously, this feature was only available as `Rust | Share in Playground` action in `Tools` and context menus

  * [#6960] `Expand dependency specification` for `Cargo.toml`

    {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/intention-expand-dependency" w="600px" h="300px" %}

  * [#6837] `Create struct` to create a struct from an unresolved struct literal (by [@Kobzol])

    {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/intention-struct" w="600px" h="300px" %}

> * [#5650] Improve `Use destructuring declaration` intention action: replace usages of destructured variable (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#5650] Now `Use destructuring declaration` intention action replaces usages of destructured variable (by [@Kobzol])
```

  {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/intention-destructure-decl" w="600px" h="150px" %}

* [#6986] Allow specifying the function return type in `Create function` intention action if the inferred return type is unknown (by [@Kobzol])

  {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/intention-create-function" w="600px" h="300px" %}

* Improve [code folding]:

  * [#7111] Support folding for multiline `where` clauses (by [@Stzx])

    {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/fold-where" w="600px" h="300px" %}

  * [#7112] Enable folding for series of use items by default (by [@Stzx])<br>
    You can disable it via `Imports` option in `Settings | Editor | General | Code Folding` settings

  * [#7112] Support `Method bodies` option of `Settings | Editor | General | Code Folding - General` settings
    to fold function/method bodies by default (by [@Stzx])

> * Improve experimental crate-local index:

Reviewer: Let's add a link to https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/6463.
I've asked @avrong to add a paragraph with description of crate local index feature

* [#7142] Drop support of `org.rust.cargo.fetch.out.dir` experimental feature.
  Use `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` instead if you need to evaluate
  `env!("OUT_DIR")` in your `include!` macro calls

## Fixes

* Name resolution fixes:

  * [#7119] Correctly resolve qualified [attribute](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/procedural-macros.html#attribute-macros) procedural macro paths (like `#[foo::bar]`)

  * [#7132] Resolve [field shorthand](https://doc.rust-lang.org/edition-guide/rust-2018/data-types/field-init-shorthand.html) to a local variable in the case of unresolved struct literal

* Improvements of [new name resultion](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/6217) engine:

  * [#7089] Correctly resolve macros with absolute paths (like `::foo::bar!()`)

  * [#7057] Exclude some cfg-disabled items from completion

* `Change Signature` refactoring (`Refactor | Change Signature` or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>F6</kbd>) fixes:

  * [#7081] Fix some false positives in name conflict detection (by [@Kobzol])

  * [#7080] Do not needlessly import default type arguments (by [@Kobzol])

  * [#7076] Correctly place function visibility after attributes (by [@Kobzol])

> * [#7108] Fix auto-import: insert correct import in the case of a renamed cargo package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#7108] Insert correct `use` item by auto-import feature in the case of a [renamed](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying-dependencies.html#renaming-dependencies-in-cargotoml) Cargo package
```

* [#7101] Fix false positive in `Needless lifetimes` inspection when the lifetime is used in `where` clause (by [@Kobzol])

> * [#5491] Improve built-in formatter: add line break after opening brace in struct blocks (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#5491] Add line break after opening brace in struct blocks by built-in formatter (by [@Kobzol])
```

* [#7131] Fix false-positive proofreading warnings for sentences written in several sequential Rust comments.
  Note, you can enable/disable proofreading in Rust files in `Preferences | Editor | Proofreading | Grammar` settings

* [#7121] Reload project model automatically when workspace-root `Cargo.toml` file is changed (and saved).
  Previously it was work only for package `Cargo.toml` files

* [#7079] Fix proc macro expansion if proc macro crate is added as separate cargo project in `Cargo` tool window

* [#7072] Place `Show the result of macro expansion` intention lower in the intention list

* [#6013] Don't run some inspections on Rust files outside a valid Cargo project to avoid expected false positive errors

* [#7070] Don't show errors related to Rust edition if we don't known the edition (by [@Stzx])

> * [#7004] Fix experimental crate-local index: don't perform code completion and run inspections if the index is not ready

Reviewer: We can move this item to feature section in `Improve experimental crate-local index` group. I know that it's not a feature but I think it's ok
If it's ok for you, let also adjust a text like
```suggestion
* [#7004] Don't perform code completion and run inspections if the index is not ready
```

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #146"
date: 2021-04-26 17:00:00 +0300
---

## New Features

* [#6992] Provide initial experimental support for [custom derive]
  procedural macros. Now the plugin can expand such procedural macro calls and take into account expanded `impl` items
  in type inference and name resolution (other types of items are ignored for now).<br/>
  Note, it’s only an initial implementation,
  so it may work in an unexpected way in some cases. The feature is disabled by default for now. To turn it on, you
  should enable `Use experimental name resolution engine` option in `Preferences | Languages & Frameworks | Rust`
  settings and enable `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` and `org.rust.macros.proc` experimental features
  (see instructions [here][experimental features]).
  Don’t forget to reload a project structure after enabling the corresponding features via `Refresh Cargo Projects`
  action on Cargo tool window. See [tracking issue](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/6908) for
  more details and the current status of procedural macros support

>   {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/custom-derive" w="600px" h="300px" %}

Reviewer: Do you actually need to specify both `width` and `height`? It seems it's quite easily to write wrong ratio to make something like
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2539310/116001301-76e51b80-a5fc-11eb-9b0b-13b9d35f39b4.png)
Maybe `height` is enough here?

* [#7093] Now the plugin takes [Cargo config] into account during evaluation of [`cfg` conditions][cfg].
  Note, it works since Rust 1.52.0 (currently in beta)

  {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/cfg-cargo-config" w="600px" h="300px" %}

* [#6845], [#7115] Provide an intention action that toggles feature state from a `cfg` attribute (by [@Kobzol])

  {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/intention-cargo-feature" w="600px" h="300px" %}
  By the way, we have a [blogpost][cargo features blogpost] about cargo features support

* [#7071] Provide `Share in Playground` intention action to share a selected Rust code on [Rust Playground](https://play.rust-lang.org).

  {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/intention-playground" w="600px" %}

>   Previously, this feature was only available as an action in right-click menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Previously, this feature was only available as `Rust | Share in Playground` action in `Tools` and context menus
```

* Improve [code folding]:

  * [#7111] Support folding for multiline `where` clauses (by [@Stzx])

    {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/fold-where" w="600px" h="300px" %}

>   * [#7112] Support folding by default for series of use items (by [@Stzx])<br>
>     The option is **enabled** by default.
>     You can disable it in `Settings | Editor | General | Code Folding | General | imports`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [#7112] Support `Imports` options of `Settings | Editor | General | Code Folding - General` settings
     to fold sequential `use` items bodies by default.<br>
     Note, the option is **enabled** by default (by [@Stzx])
```

>   * [#7112] Support folding by default for function bodies (by [@Stzx])<br>
>     The option is **disabled** by default.
>     `imports` (actually use items) and `method bodies` (actually function bodies)
>     You can enable it in `Settings | Editor | General | Code Folding | General | method bodies`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [#7112] Support `Method bodies` option of `Settings | Editor | General | Code Folding - General` settings
     to fold function/method bodies by default (by [@Stzx])
```

* [#6960] Provide an intention action to expand dependency specification in `Cargo.toml`

  {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/intention-expand-dependency" w="600px" h="300px" %}

* [#6837] Provide an intention action to create a struct from an unresolved struct literal (by [@Kobzol])

  {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/intention-struct" w="600px" h="300px" %}

* Improve experimental crate-local index:

  * [#6801] Add `Cargo.toml` inspection that checks crate dependency version requirements that do not match any known crate version (by [@Kobzol])

  * [#6599] Use semantic versioning to improve version sorting in dependency completion

  Note, the corresponding feature is disabled by default for now. To use it, enable

>   `org.rust.crates.local.index` experimental feature (see instructions [here][experimental features])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `org.rust.crates.local.index` [experimental feature][experimental features]
```

* [#7142] Drop support of `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` experimental feature.
  Use `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` instead if you need to evaluate
  `env!("OUT_DIR")` in your `include!` macro calls

## Fixes

* [#5650] Improve `Use destructuring declaration` intention action: replace usages of destructured variable (by [@Kobzol])

  {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/intention-destructure-decl" w="600px" h="150px" %}

> * [#6986] Allow explicitly stating the function return type in `Create function` if the inferred return type was unknown. (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#6986] Allow specifying the function return type in `Create function` intention action if the inferred return type is unknown (by [@Kobzol])
```

> * [#6986] Allow explicitly stating the function return type in `Create function` if the inferred return type was unknown. (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: Also think that it's more feature than fix

  {% include gif-img-wh.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-146/intention-create-function" w="600px" h="300px" %}

* Name resolution fixes:

>   * [#7119] Fix name resolution: correctly resolve qualified attribute proc macro paths (like `#[foo::bar]`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [#7119] Correctly resolve qualified [attribute](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/procedural-macros.html#attribute-macros) procedural macro paths (like `#[foo::bar]`)
```

>   * [#7132] Fix name resolution: resolve field shorthand to a local variable in the case of unresolved struct literal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [#7132] Resolve [field shorthand](https://doc.rust-lang.org/edition-guide/rust-2018/data-types/field-init-shorthand.html) to a local variable in the case of unresolved struct literal
```

> * New name resolution fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improvements of [new name resultion](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/6217) engine:
```

  * [#7089] Fix name resolution: correctly resolve macros with absolute paths (like `::foo::bar!()`) with new name resolution engine

  * [#7057] Exclude some cfg-disabled items from completion when using new name resolution engine

> * `Change Signature` refactoring fixes:

Reviewer: Let's add an action path and short cut as we usually do

  * [#7081] Fix some false positives in name conflict detection (by [@Kobzol])

  * [#7080] Do not needlessly import default type arguments (by [@Kobzol])

  * [#7076] Correctly place function visibility after attributes (by [@Kobzol])

* [#7108] Fix auto-import: insert correct import in the case of a renamed cargo package

> * [#7101] Fix false positive in `Needless lifetimes` inspection when the lifetime is used in where clause. (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#7101] Fix false positive in `Needless lifetimes` inspection when the lifetime is used in `where` clause. (by [@Kobzol])
```

* [#5491] Improve built-in formatter: add line break after opening brace in struct blocks (by [@Kobzol])

* [#7131] Fix false-positive proofreading warnings for sentences written in several sequential Rust comments.
  Note, you can enable/disable proofreading in Rust files in `Preferences | Editor | Proofreading | Grammar` settings

> * [#7121] Refresh Cargo project automatically when workspace-root `Cargo.toml` file is changed (and saved).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#7121] Reload project model automatically when workspace-root `Cargo.toml` file is changed (and saved).
```

  Previously it was work only for package `Cargo.toml` files.

* [#7079] Fix proc macro expansion if proc macro crate is added as separate cargo project in `Cargo` toolwindow

* [#7072] Place `Show the result of macro expansion` intention lower in the intention list

> * [#6013] Don't run inspections on Rust files outside a valid Cargo project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#6013] Don't run some inspections on Rust files outside a valid Cargo project to avoid expected false positive errors
```

* [#7070] Don't show errors related to Rust edition if we don't known the edition (by [@Stzx])

* [#7004] Fix experimental crate-local index: don't perform code completion and run inspections if the index is not ready

> * [#7150] Fix `Can't find process starter` error when running DTrace profiler with CLion 2021.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#7150] Fix `Can't find process starter` error when running DTrace [profiler](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-profiler.html) with CLion 2021.1
```

* [#6201] Avoid Cargo project duplication in the project model. This fixes some issues related to such duplications

## Internal Improvements

* [#7114] Don't show "Tip of the Day" at startup in internal IDEs (for the plugin developers)

* [#7094] Enable Gradle Build Cache for local builds
  (see [#7094](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7094) for more details)

* [#6903] Introduce `2021` edition variant in the plugin and adjust the corresponding code

Full set of changes can be found [here](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/milestone/54?closed=1)

[@Kobzol]: https://github.com/Kobzol
[@Stzx]: https://github.com/Stzx

> [@abn]: https://github.com/abn

Reviewer: Looks redundant

[#7121]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7121
[#7119]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7119
[#7115]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7115
[#7108]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7108
[#7101]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7101
[#7089]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7089
[#7081]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7081
[#7080]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7080
[#7079]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7079
[#7076]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7076
[#7072]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7072
[#7070]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7070
[#7057]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7057
[#7004]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7004
[#6201]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6201
[#7114]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7114
[#7094]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7094
[#7046]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/7046

> [#6903]: https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6903

Reviewer: I'd personally sort these lines but it's up to you.
`Sort lines` action can help here
